#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
This document is the final report on the Bachelor Project conducted by Jasper
 Abbink, Karens Grigorjancs and Joost Verdoorn on Dynamic peer-to-peer game
 networks using WebRTC.
 In this report we detail our findings on the recently developed WebRTC
 technology.
 WebRTC enables the creation of web applications built around peer-to-peer
 technologies by providing the means to directly connect one browser to
 another.
 With this project we aimed to facilitate web developers by developing a
 software library that is a drop-in solution for large-scale peer-to-peer
 networks.
 We investigated the scalability of WebRTC networks and attempted to seek
 the edges of the technology.
 We evaluated a number of ways by which a browser-based peer-to-peer networks
 can be deployed, and implemented the ones that best suited our needs.
 To demonstrate our library we created a small massively-multiplayer arcade
 game as an entertaining way to display WebRTC's capabilities.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
