#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Client
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The client and supervisor of this BSc project is the same organization:
 TNO.
 TNO is a non-profit research organization that focuses on applied sciences.
 More information about TNO can be found at http://www.tno.nl/.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This chapter will start with a description of our problem.
 Following the description is the project's goal and philosophy about why
 we chose this subject.
 Thirdly we specify the main research question and explain why we picked
 it.
 After that the pre-determined deliverables are discussed and last but not
 least we compare the previously determined risks to the actual problems
 we encountered with the planning of this project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most of this information can also be found in the original plan of action.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Problem description
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sub:Problem-description"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
TNO always keeps up with new advancements in technology.
 This is necessary so they can advise their own customers about these technologi
es.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recently the department of Multimedia Network Systems saw an increase in
 the demand of information about the usability of WebRTC.
 TNO wants to know about the applicability and use-cases of this new technology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At this moment rudimentary knowledge about WebRTC is available within TNO.
 Therefore a basic demonstration of WebRTC is not what TNO is looking for.
 Instead they are looking for high-level use-cases that explore the boundaries
 of this technology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Goal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As described in 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sub:Problem-description"

\end_inset

 TNO's first goal is to explore the boundaries of what is possible with
 WebRTC.
 There are several subjects to think of when trying to reach this goal.
 You can think about number of simultaneous users, different media sources
 for streaming, media synchronization, limitation of bandwidth and cross-browser
 compatibility.
 In chapter 
\begin_inset CommandInset ref
LatexCommand ref
reference "sub:Assignment-formulation"

\end_inset

 we will chose the subjects for our assignment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second goal is to create a demonstration of our work to easily show
 others what we have accomplished with WebRTC.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Philosophy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nowadays people have access to very fast and relatively cheap internet connectio
ns.
 In countries like the Netherlands the available bandwidth often extremely
 exceeds the actual use of the average customer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This makes peer-to-peer networks easier to implement because users are no
 longer very limited in the ability to up- and download huge amounts of
 data.
 Advantages of peer-to-peer networks are the lack of a central authority
 or when a central authority is used to bootstrap the network, this entity
 can easily be replaced by other parties that do not trust the original
 party.
 Another advantage compared to a centralised system is the ability to store
 the complete application offline and prevent unwillingly sharing personal
 information.
 Direct connections to other peers also stimulate the performance by offering
 a lower latency in the connection because the middleman is cut out.
 These direct connections also make it harder to track users and transferred
 data, offering a higher degree of privacy for its users.
 This added privacy and lack of a central authority in decentralised networks
 make it nearly impossible to take down a peer-to-peer network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Assignment formulation
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "sub:Assignment-formulation"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After learning about the different aspects of WebRTC, trying out some experiment
s and encountering our own problems with it, we decided to focus our project
 on the scalability of WebRTC-networks.
 We chose this because WebRTC makes it possible to connect multiple users
 with each other without a central server relaying all traffic.
 Properly designed a system could then construct a large global peer-to-peer
 network.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Distributed networks
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is a subject with large amounts of research already done.
 Most research focuses on specialized clients connecting to such a network.
 Because WebRTC runs without external software directly in the user's browser,
 where computer resources are not easily given to a script requesting it,
 we thought it would be very interesting to focus on scalability.
 From here we constructed this main research question: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

How is it possible to create a dynamic peer-to-peer multiplayer-game-network
 that scales with the amount of users participating by only using WebRTC?
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 Related questions to this main-question are:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
How can we distribute essential network tasks over all peers?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
How can the impact of unpredictable circumstances (peers suddenly leaving
 the network) be reduced?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
How can all data reach all peers in a bandwidth-efficient way?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To cover all these questions we decided to develop a simple Massively Multiplaye
r Online Game (MMOG) as demonstration of our underlying WebRTC network structure.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Deliverables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In addition to the deliverables from the University (process documentation,
 progress-reports, this document) we have two deliverables for TNO.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first is a JavaScript library that allows anyone to easily create a
 scalable network with WebRTC.
 This library will contain all functionality to cover the research questions
 posed in the previous section.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The second deliverable for TNO is a demonstration that fully uses the created
 library.
 We picked a browser-based MMOG which will function as one big integration
 test for the library.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Risks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before we started this project we saw bad time management as the biggest
 risk.
 In the original plan of action this was described as possibly not finishing
 the library or the game.
 In the end we did make two working parts, but both do not contain all planned
 features.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Luckily Scrum saved us from our initial fear and made sure that we at least
 do have two working products now that can easily be extended after the
 project is over.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
