#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language british
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
This document is the final rapport of the bachelor end project which is
 performed under course TI3800 of Delft University of Technology that took
 place in the summer of 2013 at TNO.
 The goal of the project is to perform a software product development track
 in a real company.
 Over the course of the project we gathered knowledge on WebRTC, node topology
 and online games.
 We used that knowledge to do some research on these subjects and then to
 deliver a library for WebRTC communication, an structured network topology
 library and we demonstrate how it works in a browser based arcade game.
 This document describes the project form the very beginning by formulating
 the assignment and ends with our conclusions of the project and discussion
 of the subject.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We are very proud of the results of this project and are very glad we got
 the possibility to work on it at TNO this summer.
 We want to thank all people who contributed to the project:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\noun on
Victor Klos 
\noun default
for being our coach and motivating us to get more out of the project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\noun on
Eelco Kramer 
\noun default
for sharing his expertise with us and giving an excellent technical feedback.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\noun on
Harrie van de Vlag
\noun default
 for managing us as a group and helping us with Scrum in hard times.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\noun on
Jan Hidders, 
\noun default
our mentor from the university.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\noun on
Felienne Hermans,
\noun default
 our bachelor project coordinator.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace 1cm
\end_inset

Jasper Abbink, Karens Grigorjancs, Joost Verdoorn
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
